---
title: "Stacker 101"
author: "James Chen"
date: 2018-12-08
draft: true
subtitle: ""
tags: ["stacker", "cloudformation"]
---

Stacker is a tool and library used to create & update multiple CloudFormation stacks. It can be used with generic Cloudformation or stacker blueprints which are written with troposphere. What I believe makes it useful is that multiple stacks can be deployed with just one yaml file.

<!--more-->

So instead of running a long line for each cloudformation stack:

```bash
aws cloudformation create-template --stack-name mystack --template-body yourtemplate.yaml
--parameters dev.json
```

We can just run to deploy multiple cloudformation stacks:

```bash
stacker build dev.env stack.yaml
```

---

Let's look at using stacker a little more in depth.

## Dependencies

Stacker requires python to be installed. You can install it using pip.

```bash
pip install stacker
```

## Environment File

The environment file or the `dev.env` in the previous example contains all the variables to the cloudformation parameters. This file takes the place of your `dev.json` file for your cloudformation stack.

```yaml
namespace: my-namespace
env: dev
instancetype: t2.micro
```

## Stacker YAML

The stacker YAML is the heart of stacker. It contains where to pull the cloudformation files for your stacks. Stacker uses a namespace to keep your different stack deployments separate or together. For example you may have a wordpress application with one namespace and a backend Elasticsearch instance for logging with a separate namespace.

Below is a simple stack of specifying multiple EC2 instances.

```yaml
namespace: ${namespace}

Stack1:
  template_path: /my/template/path/cloudformation-stack.yaml
  variables:
    Environment: ${env}
    InstanceType: ${instancetype}
Stack2:
  template_path: /my/template/path/cloudformation-stack.yaml
  variables:
    Environment: ${env}
    InstanceType: m4.large
```

By running the stack with the `stacker build` command from above, you will generate 2 cloudformation stacks with 2 separate EC2 instances.

By using stacker, you're also able to link multiple Cloudformation stacks together, but that's in stacker 102.

If you want to read more about stacker, you can find the documentation [here](https://stacker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).